<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">A colonoscopy is a vital medical procedure that diagnoses and prevents several gastrointestinal disorders, majorly colorectal cancer. During colonoscopy, a long flexible tube known as a colonoscope is inserted into the rectum and passed through the large bowel to allow the doctor to inspect the entire lining of the large intestine thoroughly. Let&rsquo;s dig deeper into what this process entails and why it&rsquo;s important.</span></p>
<p><strong>Procedure of Colonoscopy:</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Generally, preparation for colonoscopy involves cleaning of the colon by dietary restrictions and laxatives in order to have a clear view during examination. On the day of the procedure, patients are usually given sedatives or anesthesia so as to lessen pain.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">After the patient has been made insensible, then the colonoscope is carefully put into his/her anus before being pushed all throughout the length of his/her intestines until it reaches the caecum. At its tip, there is a tiny camera with light that takes photos of someone&rsquo;s colon which are then sent to a monitor enabling doctors to examine the inner lining for any irregularities such as polyps or tumors.</span></p>
<p><strong>Significance of Colonoscopy:</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://123bodyscan.com/scans/colonoscopy-scan/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Colonoscopy scan</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> is crucial in early detection and prevention of colorectal cancer hence does not only save lives but also decrease fatalities caused by other cancers. Colonoscopies can significantly lower risk through identification and removal of precancerous growths called polyps at time they occur.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Further still, inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulosis as well as colorectal polyps are some digestive system conditions diagnosed with help from colonoscopies. Early diagnosis and treatment can prevent complications while improving patient outcomes.</span></p>
<p><strong>Virtual Colonoscopy:</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Also referred to as CT colonography, virtual colonoscopy provides a less invasive option compared to traditional procedures employing a scoping method for determining health status inside the human body. By making use of computed tomography (CT) scanning technology rather than a typical endoscope used in colonoscopy, it provides more detailed pictures of the colon.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">On the positive side, virtual colonoscopy has some advantages including no sedation and shorter time to recovery. Nevertheless, it may not be effective in detecting smaller polyps or lesions as compared to traditional colonoscopy.</span></p>
<p><strong>Conclusion:</strong></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Colonoscopy is an important </span><a href="https://123bodyscan.com/"><span style="font-weight: 400;">screening test</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400;"> for early detection and prevention of colorectal cancer and other gastrointestinal conditions. With proper preparation guided by medical practitioners people can safely go through this process knowing that it plays a major role in maintaining their digestive health.</span></p>
